	(first see ../README-TABS)

	How to align KJV lyrics in MythMusic of MythTV

OR	One way to workaround proportional font tab misalignment


MythMusic's filelyrics.py should already find and show the .lrc files,
on Menu -> Lyrics.  However, the proportional font may misalign the
left edge of the text for shorter verse prefixes.  What follows is how
I got my text aligned for all lines!

You can overwrite a .lrc file at any time and use Menu->Filelyrics (or
Filetweak) to update the lyric view.  Then you can scoll up/down with
the arrow keys to see the content.  We generate and use a test.lrc
file which will clearly show the alignment of all verse prefixes.

In ../, use Makefile to "make bin/xft_str_width" for measuring the
pixels of a string in a given font.  Then run bin/kjvpixwidth to
measure the width of all verse prefixes for the font you use in
MythMusic.  On my Mythbuntu frontend, this was:

	bin/kjvpixwidth Ubuntu:size=41 kjv.txt > test.lrc

Copy this test file to some LongChapter.lrc on the backend and play
LongChapter.mp3 in MythMusic.  Menu -> Lyrics should cause Filelyrics
to show the test file.  This file is sorted in order of shortest to
longest verse prefixes.  The text may shift right at some pixel
measurement where the width of the prefix causes the too close tab to
move further right.  For my Mythbuntu font this happens at 239 pixels.
Edit this number in common/filetweak.py near line 57.

The idea is to insert an extra needed tab only in shorter prefixes.
Copy the test.lrc file into the end of bin/kjvwidth after its __END__.
This code now reports the cached size of any chapter/verse prefix.

Now copy the ./filetweak.py stub to the backend's lyric grabber
location.  For me this is at /usr/share/mythtv/metadata/Music/lyrics/
Then copy common/filetweak.py and bin/kjvwidth to the common/
subdirectory of lyrics/.  Now filetweak.py should run before
filelyrics, inserting an extra tab only for shorter prefixes.

This works for me on MythTV v35 or higher.  If you have older MythTV,
you will also need at least common/ and maybe lib/ from v35.

--
Timothy D Witham <twitham@sbcglobal.net>, 2025
